negotiating ramps and stairs with the C
leg involves some special details the
swing phase should be triggered while
walking up a ramp the parameters that
apply while walking on level surfaces
are also applicable here when walking
down inclines shortest rise generally
result in a slower gait while longer
strides result in a faster gait the
prosthesis wearer uses the handrail on
the contralateral side in doing so it is
particularly important to put weight on
the prosthesis so that the C leg can
flex adequately during the first
attempts to walk step over step the
therapist should walk in front of the
amputee he or she supports the patient
with one hand on the contralateral
pelvis and guides the C leg with the
other hand later the therapist places
one hand on the contralateral side and
the other hand on the prosthesis side of
the pelvis the therapist ensures that
the amputee maintains an upright gait in
order to maintain an upright torso
position while walking down an incline
step over step the therapist once again
walks in front of the amputee and keeps
his or her hands at shoulder height in
front of the body the amputee supports
him or herself against the hands of the
therapist with his or her own hands
now the amputee has to walk down the
ramp with less and less support from the
therapist this is why the therapist now
walks beside the amputee on the
prosthesis side both of them hold hands
keeping the elbow at a right angle and
the therapist pushes against the amputee
with his or her elbow in order to help
the patient maintain an upright posture
as required
changing the side of the handrail is
possible in order to increase the level
of difficulty at first it is much easier
for the prosthesis wearer to use the
handrail on the sound side once the
patient has mastered this walking down
the incline should be practiced with the
handrail on the prosthesis side since
handrails are frequently found on just
one side in everyday situations
practicing without a handrail for
emergencies would be the next training
step for advanced users however the
prosthesis where it should always use
the handrail if present we're
negotiating ramps or stairs as was the
case when walking on a level surface the
rhythm or footprints may be specified in
order to help develop a balanced gait
pattern